Microsoft AI’s (“MAI”) Mission is to use AI responsibly to make everyone more informed, capable, and supported. MAI is responsible for Microsoft’s consumer propositions including Copilot, Bing, MSN, Microsoft Advertising, and Edge, as well as developing proprietary foundational AI models. MAI works closely with a variety of teams across Microsoft and across the full AI stack to deliver on Microsoft’s AI ambitions. Within MAI, the Monetization team focuses on both direct (paid directly by a customer) and indirect (paid by a third party) models of revenue generation across Microsoft properties. Designing the operating model for how products ship, from incubation to global rollout—defining rhythms, decision forums, and cross‑team interfaces that accelerate delivery. Building the unified metrics framework for AI monetization, partnering with data science to define what “good” looks like and how we measure product health, adoption, and revenue impact. Leading cross‑org product reviews with senior leadership, synthesizing insights across teams to highlight risks, opportunities, and strategic tradeoffs. This is a role for someone who loves solving ambiguous problems, connecting dots across disciplines, and building the systems that help world‑class product teams move faster. Our Monetization teams work within Microsoft AI, an organization responsible for Copilot, Bing, Edge, MSN, and other AI-first products. The organization has all the ingredients needed for success with Product, Engineering, Research, and Go To Market functions partnering as peers with shared goals. This enables close collaboration and rapid decision making. You will work closely with our Product, Engineering, and Sales leaders to ensure efficient and effective operational processes across the product development lifecycle. Microsoft’s mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As employees we come together with a growth mindset, innovate to empower others, and collaborate to realize our shared goals. Each day we build on our values of respect, integrity, and accountability to create a culture of inclusion where everyone can thrive at work and beyond. Establish and maintain a predictable rhythm for product releases and strategic planning. Partner with data science to build and maintain dashboards to monitor product health and performance. Bachelor's Degree in relevant field (e.g., Liberal Arts, Business Administration, Management, Computer Science) AND 8+ years experience in financial management, business planning, operations management, strategy, project management, human resources, or business-related roles Master's Degree in relevant field (e.g., Liberal Arts, Business Administration, Management, Computer Science) AND 12+ years experience in financial management, business planning, operations management, strategy, project management, human resources, or business-related roles OR Bachelor's Degree in relevant field (e.g., Liberal Arts, Business Administration, Management, Computer Science) AND 15+ years experience in financial management, business planning, operations management, strategy, project management, human resources, or business-related roles Consistent history of working directly with product, engineering, and go-to-market (GTM) leadership managing multiple complex, large-scale product launches and go-to-market strategies simultaneously. 5+ years of experience with product roadmap management and strategic planning for product releases Business Management IC6 - The typical base pay range for this role across the U.S. is USD $130,900 - $277,200 per year. There is a different range applicable to specific work locations, within the San Francisco Bay area and New York City metropolitan area, and the base pay range for this role in those locations is USD $165,600 - $303,600 per year.
